# Conway's Game of Life

This simulation uses React, [tone.js](https://app.codecov.io/gh/Tonejs/Tone.js), and Material UI to create Conway's Game of Life on a 10x10 grid. Each cell can be either `live` or `dead`.

During each generation, if a live cell has two or three live neighbours, it survives to the next generation. Any dead cell with three live neighbours becomes live, and any other cells die in the next generation. The wikipedia article for Conway's Game of Life can be found [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway's_Game_of_Life) for more information.

Each cell is mapped to a musical note, starting with the lowest note on the bottom left (C0) and increasing in pitch towards the top right. During the simulation, each generation will play all live cells simultaneously.

# Features

## Grid
Each tile in the grid is clickable to toggle between `live` and `dead`. The entire grid is set to `dead` by default upon first booting up the simulation.

## Stats
The stats section displays basic stats about the current generation. These include the number of rows, number of columns, active cells, and dead cells.

## Select Scale
This dropdown menu allows users to select the musical scale they wish to apply to the grid. By default, the chromatic scale is chosen in which each of the 12 notes in equal temperament is applied.

The included scales are as follows:
- Chromatic Scale
- Major Scale
- Natural Minor Scale
- Harmonic Minor Scale
- Melodi Minor Scale
- Major Pentatonic Scale
- Minor Pentatonic Scale

Note: It is recommended that the default chromatic scale is used since other scales do not have as many notes within the scale, causing much higher and uncomfortable pitches to be generated by the simulation. Each note also currently plays at the same volume causing audio to be much louder when many notes are played simultaneously.

## Buttons
The simulation can be started/paused using the `Start`/`Pause` button. While the simulation is paused, the `Show Next` button will reveal the next generation without playing audio. The `Random` button generates a random grid in which approximately 15% of cells are live. The `Clear` button clears the board and terminates the simulation.

The `Start` and `Show Next` buttons are disabled if the grid is empty. `Show Next` will also be disabled if the simulation is running. 

## Running the simulation

The app can be run by running `npm start` and viewing it within a browser on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

By default, the chromatic scale will be applied. The `Random` button can be used to quickly populate live cells or live cells can manually be clicked in. The `Start` button can then be used to begin the simulation.

tone.js can be installed using `npm install tone`

## Known issues

Maximum Polyphony: tone.js appears to limit the maximum number of notes that can be played simultaneously. A maximum polyphony of 25 notes was set within the program in which audio will not be played if maximum polyphony is reached. Users are notified that the audio was skipped via a snackbar.

Long simulations: Sometimes, if the simulation runs for too long, the audio glitches out.

# Features To Be Implemented
- Fix additive volume issue.

- Notify users and ask to terminate simulation if current generation is equal to the next generation rsulting in an infinite loop.